user-manual/en/intro/ouinet.md, before:

# What is Ouinet?

[Ouinet][] is the technology which allows the CENO browser to share Web content with other devices.  Ouinet comes in the form of reusable computer code (a library) that an application can use to become a participant in a network of cooperating nodes that communicate directly ([peer-to-peer][P2P] or P2P) to help access and store new Web content, and to request and deliver previously accessed content to others.

[Ouinet]: https://github.com/equalitie/ouinet/
[P2P]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peer-to-peer

Ouinet is based on a clever combination and use of existing technologies to accomplish each of its functionalities: locating other participants is done with techniques coming from the world of file sharing (BitTorrent's distributed hash table), communicating with them uses common Web and file sharing protocols (HTTP proxy requests and BitTorrent's µTP), and modern industry standards ensure the security of communications and the authenticity of exchanged content (TLS encryption and Ed25519 signatures).  Ouinet allows replacing particular technologies with others if needed (for instance, some uses of µTP can be replaced by Tor's Pluggable Transports).

In mobile devices, Ouinet can be embedded into end-user applications (as an Android library).  In computers, it can be used by normal Web clients like browsers (as a local HTTP proxy).

Same as the CENO Browser, Ouinet is developed by [eQualitie][] as Free/Libre/Open-Source software.

[eQualitie]: https://equalit.ie/

## Who is it for?

Ouinet is most useful for software developers, content creators and publishers who want to enable users of their applications to directly and transparently share retrieved Web content with other users.

TODO

Commit message:

More on Ouinet target users.

user-manual/en/intro/ouinet.md, after:

# What is Ouinet?

[Ouinet][] is the technology which allows the CENO browser to share Web content with other devices.  Ouinet comes in the form of reusable computer code (a library) that an application can use to become a participant in a network of cooperating nodes that communicate directly ([peer-to-peer][P2P] or P2P) to help access and store new Web content, and to request and deliver previously accessed content to others.

[Ouinet]: https://github.com/equalitie/ouinet/
[P2P]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peer-to-peer

Ouinet is based on a clever combination and use of existing technologies to accomplish each of its functionalities: locating other participants is done with techniques coming from the world of file sharing (BitTorrent's distributed hash table), communicating with them uses common Web and file sharing protocols (HTTP proxy requests and BitTorrent's µTP), and modern industry standards ensure the security of communications and the authenticity of exchanged content (TLS encryption and Ed25519 signatures).  Ouinet allows replacing particular technologies with others if needed (for instance, some uses of µTP can be replaced by Tor's Pluggable Transports).

In mobile devices, Ouinet can be embedded into end-user applications (as an Android library).  In computers, it can be used by normal Web clients like browsers (as a local HTTP proxy).

Same as the CENO Browser, Ouinet is developed by [eQualitie][] as Free/Libre/Open-Source software.

[eQualitie]: https://equalit.ie/

## Who is it for?

Ouinet is most useful for software developers, content creators and publishers who want to enable users of their applications to directly and transparently share retrieved Web content with other users.

Please note that Ouinet is still an experimental project: some features may not work reliably enough in certain scenarios, bugs may exist and crashes may occur.  We encourage you to ask us at <cenoers@equalit.ie>, test it and report back; your feedback will be very welcome.

**Warning:** *Ouinet is not an anonymity tool*.  If you are unsure about its adequacy for a certain task, do not hesitate to contact us.
